If we want to install the web application on to VM, first we need to install IIS (web server), and we need to take care of VM.
But if use azure web app service to host our web application, we no need to install IIS and no need to worry about virtual or physical infrastructure, aure will take care of that.
Creation of Azure Web App:
a) Provide sub and RG name
b) give web app name, it will create as <webappname>.azurewebsites.net (It was domain name/URL to browse the app)
c) then give runtime stack, whether it is .net, java, python
d) then select app service plan (app service plan provides you how much memoryy you want, CPU)
e) Coming to Networking, you can enable public access or private end point
f) enable application insights Review+create

if we want to see the deployments in our resource group,
we can go to resource groups-setting-deployment.
for example someone deleted VM from that RG, we can go to deployment-select the c/m creation thing- and click on redeploy .so we can create same VM with same configuration details. 



if we want to create html page in web app for testing, you can wrote html code in open editor tap in web app.


DEPLOYMENT SLOTS:
in web app, one web application was published, and users are accessing to that
if we want to add new feature, bug issues to that web app, we can't do,
we can create new web app and we can publish new featured web app, but it costs us more

so, for that we can make use of deployment slots in web app, where we can create two slots in web app, named production slot and staging slot.two web apps in each slot.


IMPLEMENTATION OF DEPLOYMENT SLOTS:
prerequisite: we need standard or premium app service plan web app needed.
1. go to web app,deployment slots, click on add 
2. give name for slot, let's say staging
3. once the slot is created, we can deploy newer version of web app into the slot.
4.once the slot is created, you can see two slots, one is production which is having full traffic, another one is staging slot
5. now you can click on staging slot, same web app will open in another tab with same web app configuration (it is like another web app)
6. now in this new staging web app, we can publish new configuration web app.
7 now if we want to swap the slots, go to actual web app, go to slots, click on swap
8. now users can redirect to staging web app,which has new feature new versions 
like this we can minimise the downtime for availability of application and reduce the cost for creation of new web app.

SCALING OF WEB APP:
1. To automate scale of web app, we need premium app service plan
2. if we want to manually or rule based scale out, we can go with standard sku app service plan.
3. same like vmss, we can create app metric based rules.
